To understand branding, to understand
branding, we have to understand
a number of concepts.
We have understood the positioning and
there is another concept that I
think is very important that
Power Envié students understand.
It is elasticity.
Then you would be grateful if you
explained what elasticity is and also
if you put us some example
to understand it better.
In a very simple way, elasticity
is how far you can stretch
your brand.
And once you have chosen a
brand positioning, that positioning
determines in part the capacity
of extension, the capacity
of growth of that brand.
I would say that it is the customers
who give you permission
to stretch your brand or not.
If you want, let’s give you an example.
An example of a job we do
on your day, for example, for
Taurus.
A small appliance
that decided to jump
to the category of large
appliance.
Then buy Neupol.
But what you actually buy is the
factory, the processes, but not
the brand.
Because he says, no, it’s that I already
have the brand, that I’m Taurus.
Then when you do market
research you realize that
the customer didn’t give
you permission to jump.
And for Taurus, let’s say he didn’t allow
him to sell washing machines, for example.
I remember talking to the
then CEO and saying, well,
but this is like Volvo suddenly
sells motorcycles.
Then I’m going to believe that
Volvo can sell motorcycles.
And I told him, of course, but it’s that
you’re not Volvo, you’re Derby.
And Derby that will sell cars
will have it very difficult.
Volvo will have it complicated
because it is associated with
cars, with cars, not so much with
motorcycles.
But whoever will have it much more complicated
is Derby because you have to
climb a ladder.
It wasn’t very good, honestly.
It is an example of if you are
a small appliance, if you have
moved a trusted image,
of robustness around the small
appliance, you have
to do a very, very important exercise
so that it is to be credible
and reliable within
that leap to the you want
to give.
Sometimes it’s the brand in the sense of
how they understand them.
And when I say them, I mean the
customers, that brand.
Sometimes it is the name that determines
you.
Telepizza is a beautiful name.
Pizza and phone.
Your name determines how
far you can stretch your brand.
You can’t sell as they are, I
don’t know if they still
do, but they introduced the
hamburger a while ago.
The hamburger is not telepizza because
then you would have to call
yourself differently.
You are in a certain inconsistency.
Your brand cannot stretch toward
certain products that are
pizza substitute.
You can introduce accompanying
items, but you can’t replace
pizza with hamburger.
Another brand, maybe.
The most common concept is
fast food.
You are not fast food, you are
pizza.
You are just pizza.
Brand elasticity is very much
related, on the one hand, to
brand positioning and on the
other, to brand architecture.
If I want to sell hamburgers and
compete with myself, I create
a brand.
A brand that competes with
Burger King or McDonald’s.
McDonald’s could
sell other things.
Burger King can’t sell more
than hamburgers.
So, is it a correct exercise
of brand architecture and
market segmentation?
by Inditex.
Different brands, for different
audiences, with different
styles, with different prices.
I have Massimo Dutti, I have Pull &
Bear, I have Stradivarius, I have Zara.
This will allow you to have more elasticity.
of course.
Why is?
Because I can’t reach
a specific target audience.
And so I can’t stretch the
brand beyond what my
own brand positioning allows
me.
And so, to solve those needs
that are different from
a particular target audience, I
have another brand, which is Massimo
Dutti.
This is really a corporate
strategy.
That is, if my brand is not elastic,
instead of trying to stretch
it to failure, as the case that
Studio Taurus said, I use another
brand or create another brand.
Another brand that wanted to stretch too much.
I would have found the hole.
All drinks and refresks
are gas.
I am throwing trinitrotoluenes without bubbles.
And I associate myself with the no-bubble concept?
What is happening?
What do you say?
Why can’t I throw trinitrotoluenes
with bubbles?
Then they threw trinitrotoluenes with bubbles.
Of course, your brand concept, your
positioning had been the sin.
Now you throw it.
I’m going to launch another brand.
But trine with bubbles doesn’t work.
and Chirr.
It costs.
It is more difficult.
This does not mean that you cannot sell.
There will be people who will
buy your product.
You are experiencing a lack of consistency.
Within the land of no bubbles
you would have much more traveled.
By entering with bubbles, you
start to deform your essence,
your positioning.
What your opportunity meant.
and thanks!